---
Unit 8
---
Initial Post
--
After reading Hutson's (2021) article on robo-writers, I think there are benefits but also big risks to using AI as a tool for writing. Speaking from personal experience, working as a teacher and marketer, I notice that when AI writes, it has a "voice" when you read it, you can tell it is AI. Using AI products or Chat-GPT, it looks like it strings words and phrases together which are related to the prompt that you give it. I still find myself editing and re-prompting an AI to write what I want, but it creates the base or bulk of what I want written for my task. Hutson wrote about the dangers of AI writing when it comes to extremism, bias, and racism (pp. 24-25). I would add to his point, there is dangers of misinformation and also mistakes that include inappropriate or offensive language. For example, I get concerned when I am playing a YouTube video for a class that I am teaching and it has auto-generated captions on, which is generated by an AI. Sometimes when this feature is on, it uses offensive words from misinterpreting the language or sounds in the video. This is where a human would filter out and correct those words, but there is no supervision of an AI doing the transcription of the captions. In a lot of instances with AI-generated content, whether it is texts, images, audio or video, there is little to no quality control for the product being put out there. I think that creates more distrust in using AI as a tool. For something like creative writing, I think AI would be good to use as an editor or idea generator, but not as the primary writer of the piece involved.



References:

Matthew, Hutson. (2021). Robo-writers: the rise and risks of language-generating AI. Nature, 591(7848), 22-25. Available from: 10.1038/D41586-021-00530-0 

