---
title: Unit 12
---
Future of Machine Learning 
--

After reading the article by Diez-Olivan et al. (2019), I believe that machine learning brings the promise to reduce manufacturing and production waste. By optimizing business processes, shipping routes, and production chains, machine learning could be used to bring changes and efficiency to multiple industries. These can range from agriculture, natural resources, furniture, fashion, and consumer goods -- also some of the biggest polluting industries on the planet. If researchers can figure out how to reduce the energy consumption that artificial intelligence uses to perform tasks, this can prove to be a safe tool for more businesses to employ and still be good sustainbility (Berreby, 2024). The problem with using AI is that we do not know how much energy, water, or carbon it is consuming and producing. I am not comfortable with a full embrace of the Industry 4.0 that machine learning promises until we understand and solve the problem that AI is creating -- and could make worse for our future if we do not acknowledge it. 


References:

Berreby, D. (2024) As Use of A.I. Soars, So Does the Energy and Water It Requires, Yale E360. Available at: https://e360.yale.edu/features/artificial-intelligence-climate-energy-emissions.

Diez-Olivan, A. et al. (2019) ‘Data fusion and machine learning for industrial prognosis: Trends and perspectives towards Industry 4.0’, Information Fusion, 50, pp. 92–111. Available at: https://doi.org/10.1016/j.inffus.2018.10.005. 
